Upgrade ERC20 tokens for interop (#1577)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20.mdx

personas: [Developer]
categories: [Tutorial, Interop]
content_type: article
---

import { Callout, Steps, Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'

<Callout>
  The SuperchainERC20 standard is ready for production deployments.
  Please note that the OP Stack interoperability upgrade, required for crosschain messaging, is currently still in active development.
</Callout>

# Upgrading ERC20 to SuperchainERC20

## Overview

This guide explains how to upgrade an ERC20 to a [`SuperchainERC20`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainERC20.sol) that can teleport across the [Superchain interop cluster](/interop/explainer#superchain-interop-cluster) using the [`SuperchainTokenBridge`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainTokenBridge.sol) contract. For more information on how it works, [see the explainer](/interop/superchain-erc20).

{/* 

I put this warning here, when we don't have it on most pages, because this tutorial
has, IMHO, code that is a lot more likely to be used in production. It doesn't just
show what is possible, it does the exact job needed.

> */}

Author: I have a reason for the comment here, please leave it.

There are several ways to upgrade an existing ERC20 for interop depending on your circumstance:

{/* 

*   If you can upgrade the existing contract, but the address is not available on other chains? In that case, use a custom bridge 

upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/custom-bridge.

*/}

| When To Use                                             | Action                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| You can install a new ERC20 contract                    | [**Deploy New SuperchainERC20 contracts** directly](/interop/tutorials/deploy-superchain-erc20)                           |
| Existing ERC20 contract cannot be upgraded              | [**Implement Lockbox Solution** to bridge between tokens](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/lockbox)         |

> | You can deploy to other chains using same proxy address | [**Perform Contract Upgrade** while maintaining address](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/contract-upgrade) |

Reviewer: using 'the' same proxy address

---
title: Upgrading ERC20 to SuperchainERC20
lang: en-US
description: Tutorial on how to take an existing ERC20 and upgrade it to SuperchainERC20.
topic: Interoperability
personas: [Developer]
categories: [Tutorial, Interop]
content_type: article
---

import { Callout, Steps, Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'

<Callout>
  The SuperchainERC20 standard is ready for production deployments.
  Please note that the OP Stack interoperability upgrade, required for crosschain messaging, is currently still in active development.
</Callout>

# Upgrading ERC20 to SuperchainERC20

## Overview

This guide explains how to upgrade an ERC20 to a [`SuperchainERC20`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainERC20.sol) that can teleport across the [Superchain interop cluster](/interop/explainer#superchain-interop-cluster) using the [`SuperchainTokenBridge`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainTokenBridge.sol) contract. For more information on how it works, [see the explainer](/interop/superchain-erc20).

> <Callout type="warning">
>   The code on the documentation site is sample code, *not* production code.
>   This means that we ran it, and it works as advertised.
>   However, it did not pass through the rigorous audit process that most Optimism code undergoes.
>   You're welcome to use it, but if you need it for production purposes you should get it audited first.
> </Callout>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

{/* 

I put this warning here, when we don't have it on most pages, because this tutorial
has, IMHO, code that is a lot more likely to be used in production. It doesn't just
show what is possible, it does the exact job needed.

*/}

> There are several ways to upgrade an existing ERC20 for interop, depending on the exact circumstances.
> 
> *   Can you just install a new ERC20 contract? If so, [deploy new `SuperchainERC20` contracts](/interop/tutorials/deploy-superchain-erc20).
> *   Are you unable to upgrade the existing ERC20 contract? If so, [use the lockbox solution](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/lockbox).
> *   Can you deploy contracts on the other chains in the same address as the proxy used in the original chain? If so, [do a contract upgrade](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/contract-upgrade).
> 
> {/* 
> 
> *   If you can upgrade the existing contract, but the address is not available on other chains? In that case, use a custom bridge 
> 
> upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/custom-bridge.
> 
> */}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

There are several ways to upgrade an existing ERC20 for interop depending on your circumstance:

{/* 

*   If you can upgrade the existing contract, but the address is not available on other chains? In that case, use a custom bridge 

upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/custom-bridge.

*/}

| When To Use | Action |
|-------------|--------|
| You can install a new ERC20 contract | [**Deploy New SuperchainERC20 contracts** directly](/interop/tutorials/deploy-superchain-erc20) |
| Existing ERC20 contract cannot be upgraded | [**Implement Lockbox Solution** to bridge between tokens](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/lockbox) |
| You can deploy to other chains using same proxy address | [**Perform Contract Upgrade** while maintaining address](/interop/tutorials/upgrade-to-superchain-erc20/contract-upgrade) |
```
